1. Data structure
-----------------
A structure is a value type data type. It helps you to make a single variable hold related data of various data types. The struct keyword is used for creating a structure.

2. Class versus Structure
-------------------------
Classes and Structures have the following basic differences −

classes are reference types and structs are value types
structures do not support inheritance
structures cannot have default constructor

3. Why C# does not support multiple inheritance
-----------------------------------------------
C# does not support multiple inheritance because it might raise the issue of ambiguity. 
The ambiguity arises when two parent classes have the same child class, and each parent class has a function with the same name.

4. C# interface
---------------
The interface is a class in C#, 
which helps us implement the C# multiple inheritance. 
In the interface, we only define the method, not the implementation of the method. 
We can overwrite the implementation of the method when we inherit the interface's functionality in the derived class.Interface 
supports pure abstraction.An interface cannot contain variables, constant members, constructors, destructors, or static members.

5. Design Patterns
------------------
Design patterns are solutions to software design problems you find again & again in real-world application development.

Singleton -> The Singleton design pattern ensures a class has only one instance and provide a global point of access to it.
Factory Method -> Abstract class with abstract method
Abstract Factory -> create abstract class with related abstract methods or families

6. Collection
-------------
Dictionary<TKey,TValue>  --> Store items as key/value pairs for quick look-up by key
List<T>  --> Access items by index
LinkedList<T>  --> Access items sequentially
SortedList<TKey,TValue>  --> A sorted collection
HashSet<T>, SortedSet<T>  --> A set for mathematical functions

generic -> it is

   Weight
	100
	200
	300
	400
To. 1000

7. Hashtable Vs Dictionary
--------------------------
Dictionary, store key/value pairs of same type. --> Hashtable, store key/value pairs of the same or different type.
Dictionary, must specify the type of key and value. --> Hashtable, no need to specify the type of the key and value.
Dictionary, data retrieval is faster  --> Hashtable, data retrieval is slower
Dictionary, give error if key is not available when fetch --> HashSet, give null if key is not available when fetch

8. Caches
---------
It essentially stores information that is likely to be used again.

9. OOPs Concepts
----------------
Abstraction   --> Abstraction means putting all the necessary variables and methods in a class.
Encapsulation --> Wrapping up a data member and a method together into a single uni [Class]
Inheritance	  --> When a class includes a property of another class, it is known as inheritance
Polymorphism  --> Polymorphism means one name, many forms. One function behaves in different forms.

10. Entity framework
--------------------
Use to save or retrieve application data from a database.

Cross-platform --> Used in Windows, Linux, MAC
Linq Queries --> Can use linq queries
Saving --> SaveChanges() OR SaveChangesAsync() --> Insert, update, delete
Caching --> repeated querying will return data from the cache instead of hitting the database.
Migrations --> Provides set of migration commands that can be executed on the NuGet Package Manager Console or the Command Line Interface to create/manage database Schema.


Access Modifiers:
Public ->  we can access all assembly/ any one can access
Private -> only access this class and its member function.
Protected -> access in child class.
Internal -> allows access within the same assembly

What is Entity Framework (EF)?
Entity Framework is an Object-Relational Mapper (ORM) for .NET.
It allows developers to work with databases using C# objects instead of writing SQL queries directly.

11. Synchronous & Asynchronous
------------------------------

Synchronous  --> Once one operation is complete then another will run
Asynchronous --> One operation execution is not dependent on another, Multiple operation can run on single time

12. Loose Coupling & Tight Coupling
-----------------------------------

Tight Coupling means one class is dependent on another class.
In tight coupling, there are hard-coded dependency declared in methods. 

Loose Coupling means one class is dependent on interface rather than class. 
In loose coupling, we must pass dependency externally at runtime instead of hard-coded.

13. Can the .tostring method handle NULL values?
------------------------------------------------

No, the .tostring method cannot handle NULL values. Instead of it, we can use Convert .tostring method to handle NULL values.

14. Angular
-----------



-----------------------

Today 1st Interview Question (27 Jun 2023)

1. Is .net core is better then .net framework, If yes how? and their differences
2. Dependency injection
3. Metapackage - package.lock.json
4. Middleware
5. Is web.config is available in .net core?
6. which files are available with .json extension in .net core?
7. Razor pages in .net core
8. How can we define services in controller?
9. Store procedure benefits
10.Normalization
11.Indexing in DB and Its types
12. Can we deploy .net core project in Linux platform?
13. CICD Approach

------------------------
Today 2nd Interview Question (27 Jun 2023)

1. Write a sorting algorithm on a array without the use of any inbuilt function or tool, Sort the array in ascending order and take the input to be integer array =(1,-2,3,8,-2)

2. Consider a hypothetical situation where you have a database of the number of employees in an organization with their salary, Write a linq expression to find out the record with maximum salary

3. Write an sql query to fetch the item name with the 2nd lowest value when compared to the average of the amount in the orders table

4. Difference between Add scoped and Add transient

5. Reflection in .net

6. Generic in .net

Programming Questions
---------------------

1. Write a sorting algorithm on a array without the use of any inbuilt function or tool, Sort the array in ascending order and take the input to be integer array =(1,-2,3,8,-2)
---------------------------------------------------------
int[] array = new int[] { 1, -2, 3, 8, -2 };

// Bubble Sort
int temp;
for (int i = 0; i < array.Length - 1; i++)
{
    for (int j = 0; j < array.Length - i - 1; j++)
    {
        if (array[j] > array[j + 1])
        {
            // Swap elements
            temp = array[j];
            array[j] = array[j + 1];
            array[j + 1] = temp;
        }
    }
}

// Print the sorted array
foreach (int num in array)
{
    Console.Write(num + " ");
}


2. Consider a hypothetical situation where you have a database of the number of employees in an organization with their salary, Write a linq expression to find out the record with maximum salary
-------------------------
var employeeWithMaxSalary = employees.OrderByDescending(e => e.Salary).FirstOrDefault();

3. Write an sql query to fetch the item name with the 2nd lowest value when compared to the average of the amount in the orders table

select avg(amount) as averageAmount from orders
       


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Boxing & Unboxing
It is a concept to convert .net data types from value type to reference type AND vice versa

EX:
int i = 1;
object box = i; //Boxing
int j = (int)box; //Unboxing


readonly & constant
constant need to be defined at the time of assignment/declaration, while readonly field can be defined at runtime
constant are implicitly static, while readonly values don't have to be static they can change on runtime


Private constructor
Private constructor is a special instance constructor which is used in a class that contains static member only.
If a class has one or more private constructor then class cannot be inherited, cannot create object of a class.
It is used in singleton design patterns, to make sure that the only one instance of a class can ever be created. 


Sealed class
Sealed classes are used to restrict the users from inheriting the class


Static class
Static class is a class that cannot be instantiated and cannot be inherited.
Static class can only contain static data members, static methods.
Static class cannot contain an instance constructor. However, they can contain a static constructor to initialize static members.


Abstract class (Global)
Abstract class is a class that cannot be instantiated. Instead, It serves as a base class for other classes to inherit from.
Abstract class can inherit from a class and one or more interfaces.
Abstract class can have modifiers for methods, properties, constants and fields, constructors or destructors.
Abstract class cannot be inherited from by structures


interface
The interface is a concept in C#, which helps us implement the C# multiple inheritance. 
In the interface, we only define the method, not the implementation of the method. 
We can overwrite the implementation of the method when we inherit the interface's functionality in the derived class. Interface supports pure abstraction.
An interface cannot contain variables, constant members, constructors, destructors, or static members.


Abstract class & interface
A class can implement any number of interfacces but a subclass can at most use only one abstract class. 
An abstract class can have non-abstract Methods(concrete methods) while in case of Interface all the methods has to be abstract.
An abstract class can declare or use any variables while an interface is not allowed to do so.
An abstract class can have constructor declaration while an interface can not do so.
An abstract Class is allowed to have all access modifiers for all of its member declaration while in interface we cannot use access modifier(including public) as all the members of interface are implicitly public.


Delegates
The delegate is a reference type data type that defines the method signature.
A delegate is a pointer to a method. That means, a delegate holds the address of a method which can be called using that delegate


Generics
Generic is a class which allows the user to define classes and methods with the placeholder
The basic idea behind using Generic is to allow type (Integer, String, … etc and user-defined types) to be a parameter to methods, classes, and interfaces.

EX:
Dictionary<TKey,TValue>  --> Store items as key/value pairs for quick look-up by key
List<T>  --> Access items by index
LinkedList<T>  --> Access items sequentially
SortedList<TKey,TValue>  --> A sorted collection
HashSet<T>, SortedSet<T>  --> A set for mathematical functions


Extension Method
A C# extension method allows developers to extend the functionality of an existing type without creating a new derived type, recompiling, or otherwise modifying the original type.
Extension methods allow existing classes to be extended without relying on inheritance or changing the class's source code
An extension method must be defined in a top-level static class.
The concept of extension methods cannot be applied to fields, properties, or events.


ref vs out
Ref and out keywords in C# are used to pass arguments within a method or function
Both indicate that an argument/parameter is passed by reference. By default parameters are passed to a method by value
The parameter or argument must be initialized first before it is passed to ref.
	It is not compulsory to initialize a parameter or argument before it is passed to an out.
Passing a parameter value by Ref is useful when the called method is also needed to modify the pass parameter.
	Declaring a parameter to an out method is useful when multiple values need to be returned from a function or method.


using statement
The using statement is used to work with an object in C# that implements the IDisposable interface, where object is dispose after using block is closed.



var result = context.persons.where(p => p.id > 30).Orderby(p => p.name, p.location



Reports module not working or have not access, for that discussed with Michael Shewan and fixed to connect with Anand also.

Task
NET framework provides Threading.Tasks class to let you create tasks and run them asynchronously.
A task is an object that represents some work that should be done. 
The task can tell you if the work is completed and if the operation returns a result, the task gives you the result.

Thread
.NET Framework has thread-associated classes in System.Threading namespace.  A Thread is a small set of executable instructions.





Jira board :
Jira is used by a large number of clients and users globally for project, time, requirements, task, bug, change, code, test, release, sprint management.

Sprint Management :
Sprint is a time-boxed period during which a team works on a specific set of objectives, benchmarks, or outputs.

Confluence :
Confluence is a team workspace where knowledge and collaboration meet. Dynamic pages give your team a place to create, capture, and collaborate on any project or idea.



Concrete Class :
A concrete class is a class that we can create an instance of, using the new keyword.
In other words, it's a full implementation of its blueprint. 

Stateless Protocol vs Stateful Protocol

Stateless Protocol:

1.does not require the server to retain the server information or session details.	
2.there is no tight dependency between server and client.
3.The Stateless protocol design simplify the server design.	
4.Stateless Protocols handle the transaction very fastly.	
5.Stateless Protocols are easy to implement in Internet.	
6.Scaling architecture is relatively easier.
7.The requests are not dependent on the server side and are self contained.	
8.To process different information at a time , different servers can be used.	
9.Example of Stateless are UDP , DNS , HTTP , etc.	


Stateful Protocol:

1.Stateful Protocol require server to save the status and session information.
2.In Stateful protocol, there is tight dependency between server and client
3.The Stateful protocol design makes the design of server very complex and heavy.
4.Stateful Protocols handle the transaction very slowly.
5.Stateful protocols are logically heavy to implement in Internet.
6.It is difficult and complex to scale architecture.
7.The requests are always dependent on the server side.
8.To process every request , the same server must be utilized.
9.Example of Stateful are FTP , Telnet , etc.



Solid Principles :
S — Single Responsibility: One class, one responsibility.
O — Open-Closed: Extensible, not modifiable.
L — Liskov Substitution: Substitute with subtypes.
I — Interface Segregation: Smaller, specific interfaces.
D — Dependency Inversion: Depend on abstractions, not concretions

1. Single Responsibility Principle (SRP): A class should have only one reason to change, meaning it should have only one job or responsibility. 
2. Open/Closed Principle (OCP): Software entities (classes, modules, functions, etc.) should be open for extension but closed for modification. 
3. Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP): Subtypes should be substitutable for their base types without altering the correctness of the program. 
4. Interface Segregation Principle (ISP): Clients should not be forced to depend on methods they do not use. 
5. Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP): High-level modules should not depend on low-level modules. 
	Both should depend on abstractions. Abstractions should not depend on details. Details should depend on abstractions


Unit Testing : 
test the smallest functional unit of code.
Unit testing involves testing individual parts of our code, like methods or classes, separately to make sure they work correctly.
By doing this, we can find and fix bugs, avoid problems, and create a strong codebase.
In .NET Core, there are three popular unit testing frameworks: MSTest, NUnit, and xUnit.net.

unit testing, "AAA" refers to the Arrange-Act-Assert pattern. This is a widely used structure for writing unit tests,
dividing each test method into three distinct phases: preparing the test environment (Arrange), invoking the code under test (Act), and verifying the outcome (Assert). 

Integration Testing:
integration testing means end to end flow , individual units are combined and tested as a group

View vs StoreProcedure :

A Stored Procedure:

Accepts parameters
Can NOT be used as building block in a larger query
Can contain several statements, loops, IF ELSE, etc.
Can perform modifications to one or several tables
Can NOT be used as the target of an INSERT, UPDATE or DELETE statement.

A View:

Does NOT accept parameters
Can be used as building block in a larger query
Can contain only one single SELECT query
Can NOT perform modifications to any table
But can (sometimes) be used as the target of an INSERT, UPDATE or DELETE statement.


VARCHAR vs NVARCHAR :

VARCHAR uses a single-byte character set, meaning it can store characters from a single language or script. 
NVARCHAR uses Unicode, allowing it to store characters from multiple languages and scripts


An array is a collection of fixed-size elements that are all of the same type, stored in contiguous memory.

 What is .NET SDK?
The .NET SDK (Software Development Kit) is a collection of tools and libraries that you need to build, run, and develop .NET applications.

Request Delegation
The process of passing control from one middleware to the next in the pipeline using await next().


MVC Filters : 

1. Authentication Filters:
These filters are executed first and are used to authenticate the user's identity. 
They determine if the user is who they claim to be before further processing the request. 

2. Authorization Filters:
These filters determine if the authenticated user has permission to access the requested resource. 
They evaluate the user's roles and permissions against the requirements of the action being invoked. 

3. Action Filters:
These filters run before and after an action method is executed. 
They can be used for tasks like input validation, data transformation, or caching results. 

4. Result Filters:
These filters run after an action method has executed, but before the result is rendered to the user. 
They can be used to modify the view data or the response itself. 

5. Exception Filters:
These filters are triggered when an unhandled exception occurs during the request processing. 
They allow you to handle errors gracefully, log errors, or redirect the user to an error page. 

What is Middleware in ASP.NET Core?
Middleware is software that's assembled into an app pipeline to handle requests and responses. Each component:
Can perform actions before and after the next middleware.
Example: Logging, Authentication, Exception handling.


What is Dependency Injection in .NET? What are AddScoped, AddTransient, AddSingleton?
Dependency Injection (DI) is a design pattern to achieve Inversion of Control (IoC) for managing object lifetimes and dependencies.
AddScoped: New instance per request.
AddTransient: New instance every time requested.
AddSingleton: One instance for the whole app.


How does Exception Handling work in .NET Core?
Handled using try-catch-finally. For global exceptions, use middleware like UseExceptionHandler() or DeveloperExceptionPage().
try
{
    // risky code
}
catch (Exception ex)
{
    // handle exception
}


What is Authentication & Authorization in .NET Core?
Authentication confirms who the user is (login).
Authorization checks what the user is allowed to do (role-based access).
Implemented using Identity or JWT in .NET Core.


What are Microservices?
Microservices are a software architecture pattern where an app is composed of small independent services communicating over HTTP 
(often via REST APIs). Each service can be deployed and scaled independently.


What is CORS Policy in ASP.NET Core?

Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) allows or restricts resources to be requested from a different domain.
services.AddCors(options =>
{
    options.AddPolicy("AllowAll", builder =>
        builder.AllowAnyOrigin().AllowAnyMethod().AllowAnyHeader());
});

What are Extension Methods in C#?
Allows adding new methods to existing types without modifying them.

What is Entity Framework?
EF Core is an ORM (Object Relational Mapper) that lets you interact with databases using .NET objects.
var users = context.Users.ToList();

What is LINQ in C#?
Language Integrated Query (LINQ) is used for querying collections like arrays, lists, or databases in a type-safe way.

var adults = users.Where(u => u.Age >= 18);

What are Unit Test and Integration Test Cases?
Unit Test: Tests individual functions/classes (e.g., with xUnit or NUnit).
Integration Test: Tests multiple components working together (like DB + API).

What are HTTP Verbs (GET, POST, PUT, PATCH)?
GET: Fetch data
POST: Create resource
PUT: Update entire resource
PATCH: Update part of a resource

What is the first step to debug a production issue?
Check logs (e.g., Serilog, Application Insights).
Identify recent deployments or changes.
Replicate issue in staging.
Analyze performance metrics.


Request
  ↓
Routing (RouteConfig)
  ↓
MvcHandler
  ↓
ControllerFactory → Controller
  ↓
ActionInvoker → Action Method
  ↓
Model Binding
  ↓
Action Execution
  ↓
Result Execution (View/Redirect/Json)
  ↓
View Engine → View (.cshtml)
  ↓
HTML Response




   Database
 
What is the difference between Clustered and Non-Clustered Index?
Clustered Index: Alters the physical order of data. One per table.
Non-Clustered Index: Maintains a separate structure with pointers. Multiple allowed.

What are different types of SQL Joins?
LEFT JOIN: All records from left table + matching from right.
RIGHT JOIN: All records from right + matching from left.
INNER JOIN: Only matching records from both.
OUTER JOIN: All records with NULLs where no match.

How do you optimize a Stored Procedure?
Use proper indexing.
Avoid cursors.
Use SET NOCOUNT ON.
Analyze execution plan.
Avoid unnecessary computations.

What is Normalization?
Process of structuring a relational database to reduce redundancy:

1NF: Atomic columns.
2NF: Remove partial dependency.
3NF: Remove transitive dependency.

composite key vs Unique key:
A composite key is a primary key composed of multiple columns, while a unique key is a constraint that ensures 
uniqueness for one or more columns, but it can also include NULL values.

What are Migrations in EF Core?
Track and apply database schema changes.
dotnet ef migrations add InitialCreate
dotnet ef database update
 

  Angular

What are Angular Decorators?
Functions that attach metadata to classes and methods:
@Component, @NgModule, @Injectable.

What are Directives in Angular?
Custom HTML behavior.
Types:
Structural: *ngIf, *ngFor
Attribute: [ngClass], [ngStyle]

What are Filters in Angular?
Handled via Pipes (Angular doesn’t have traditional filters).

{{ amount | currency }}

What are Lifecycle Hooks in Angular?
Methods like:

ngOnInit(): Initialization logic.
ngOnDestroy(): Cleanup code.

What is MVVM Architecture?
Model-View-ViewModel: Separation between UI, data, and logic for better testability and maintainability.

What is the difference between Eager and Lazy Loading?
Eager Loading: Modules load at startup.
Lazy Loading: Load modules only when needed (improves performance).

What are Pipes in Angular?
Transform output in templates.

{{ today | date:'shortDate' }}


What is NgModule?
Defines a context for components and dependencies.

@NgModule({
  declarations: [AppComponent],
  imports: [BrowserModule]
})


What is NgRx?

Redux-based state management for Angular applications using Store, Actions, and Reducers.

What are Angular Routers?
Used for navigation between views/pages.

<router-outlet></router-outlet>


  React

What are the components in React?
Reusable pieces of UI.
Functional Components (with hooks)
Class Components (older)

What is state in React?
A built-in object that stores property values that belong to the component.

const [count, setCount] = useState(0);


What are props in React?
Props are arguments passed into React components from a parent component.

<MyComponent name="John" />

What are the different types of Hooks in React?
useState(): Manage local state

useEffect(): Side effects

useContext(): Context API

useRef(), useMemo(), useReducer()

What is Redux?
A predictable state container for JavaScript apps. Components dispatch actions to update a global store via reducers.
